Come a little closer and lend me your
ears.
Don't worry,
you keep yours while I keep mine.
In each episode,
we'll dig into the major stories,
uncover the truth and retrieve gems from
Yada's blog.
We'll discuss what's right,
bark about what's wrong,
wag our tails at the thrill of discovery
and take you on adventures through the
exciting world we live in today.
So,
fasten your curiosity leash and get ready.
Right then,
coming to you with another episode of the
Yada's Vlog on a Blog.
Tomorrow's news, disseminated today.
Let's dive in.
Yes, indeed, the Wook knows.
This is going to be another special
edition of the vlog,
and that we are continuing our series,
the second in many of these series,
on basics.
And the second basic we wish to discuss
is something that is completely forgotten
among Jews,
certainly unknown among Christians, and,
well, Muslims wouldn't know it if it...
Kiss them on the cheek.
It's Matsah.
Matsah is more than a cracker.
It happens to be the single most important
day thus far
in the history of the world.
Imagine that.
Most important day to God of every day
in the history of the universe thus far
was the fulfillment of Matsah in year four
thousand Yah, thirty-three CE,
and not one person in a million knows
anything about it.
And the Jews that claim that, oh,
they're Towrah scholars,
and they've had Towrah scholars going all
that time,
Not one of them recognizes the purpose of
the day or who fulfilled it or what
the benefits might be.
Pretty astounding, really.
And I'm here to tell you,
Wookie knows more than do all the
religious combined.
But, you know, Wookie is a smart dog.
All right.
So, Matsah
I want to begin just by chatting with
you about what it's important to know.
And then as time permits,
we're going to go into what Yahowah has
to say.
I just cultivated a few of the statements
that Yahowah has made about Matsah
Well, I think it's what, my friend,
about forty some odd pages of notes.
Just a brief forty pages.
Just what's a brief forty pages.
And so I just happened to collect,
as I say,
a small amount of Yahowah's comments about Matsah.
And it's it's forty pages long,
which at this kind of a program would
only take us about four hours to get
through.
So get comfortable.
Now,
we're not going to go into that kind
of detail.
Matsah is for you and for me,
the single most important day of the year.
What just has been butchered,
what has been butchered by the religious
is that Passover is not a seven-day
holiday and Matsah is not an ingredient
for Passover.
And that in Christianity,
they have their man-god, Twinkle Toes,
that manages to do the impossible.
He not only serves as the Passover lamb
without ever mentioning Passover,
but the lamb comes back to life.
So it's a special version of Passover
where rather than the lamb being
sacrificed to give everybody else life,
the lamb himself comes back to life.
special twinkle toes versions of uh of man
god ism if you will uh but what
everybody seems to miss because in
christianity the man god this um mythical
jesus well god it was really a taxing
day on passover so he needed a good
long nap so he went into the tomb
and he just napped on uh on Matsah
And that way he on Easter,
which is named after Ishtar,
the goddess of Babylon,
could do a resurrection act.
And well,
that sort of misses the entire purpose.
That would be the antithesis of the
purpose.
God condemns everything that came out of
Babylon.
and therefore there was no Ishtar day.
And of course, the Passover lamb,
the body of the Passover lamb to be
Towrah observant,
to have fulfilled the Towrah's purpose,
that has to be incinerated the night of
Passover so it can't come back to life.
Yeah, well, so they missed that.
But there is the myth in Christianity that
Jesus went into hell.
Now how could God go into hell?
I don't know,
they don't bother to explain that.
And they don't have any testimony in their
New Testament to suggest it's true.
But you know,
the whole myth of Jesus is a
conglomeration of identity theft,
stealing from Dowd.
So there's little bits and pieces that are
kind of occasionally are woven into the
story.
Now, in Judaism,
they get Passover all sorts of wrong.
They make Passover a seven-day holiday.
They make no association with Matsah other
than it's a meaningless ingredient during
the process.
There is no chag Matsah.
There's no celebration of a Miqra'ey or a
Mow'ed known as Matsah.
They have no clue what that day
represents.
And so it's a mess in Judaism.
and that's a real problem because one of
the reasons that God makes such a big
deal over Matsah,
and he says that Matsah is the essential
day.
He says that Matsah, even celebrated,
it's a Shabbatown,
which means that it is to be treated
as all things pursuant to the Shabbat.
He calls it the Miqra'ey,
the day to be called out.
It's the day of days.
And it's because after fulfilling Pesach
as the Ayil, as the Passover lamb, Dowd,
and it was King David who came back
to fulfill these days for his own
admission.
Dowd's
bodies fulfilled Passover as the Lamb,
allowing the Romans to crucify him,
which he explained vividly in the
twenty-second Psalm,
talking about exactly how crucifixion
would kill six hundred years before
crucifixion was invented.
And we have a copy of this scroll
dating to several centuries before Dowd
actually fulfilled it.
I mean,
prophecy doesn't get better than that.
And of course,
we have copies of Daniel dating to four
centuries prior to that timeline being
fulfilled, where Gabry'el, who is Dowd,
told us the exact day in thirty three
C.E.
that he would complete the promise of Chag
Matsah.
And it doesn't get better than that,
folks,
if you're looking for absolute proof.
That's it.
So here is a.
Dowd he has sacrificed his disposable
body his Basar to fulfill passover as the
lamb but it didn't kill Dowd you know
this idea that uh that god died is
been absurd in christianity i mean it's
just so utterly ridiculous
It's a matter, it's a mystery.
There are five Christians,
much less two and a half billion of
you out there.
God cannot die.
Men cannot kill God.
So no one died on Passover.
They said, well,
you just said Dowd suffered
crucifixion and that sure as heck killed
him, right?
Killed the body.
Right?
This fascination that the religious have
with the body,
it keeps them from understanding the great
depth of the story that Yahowah is telling.
They miss everything that's important.
They're unable to see how God can redeploy
the souls that he trusts multiple times
because they get caught up in their
underwear over a body dying and a body
being born.
Bodies are so meaningless, worthless.
They're a liability.
It's the soul that matters.
Dowd's soul did not die when he fulfilled
Passover.
His soul lived on.
Now his soul had a lot of work
to do after fulfilling Passover by
sacrificing his disposable Basar body.
Because after opening the door to life,
as the firstborn on Passover.
Dowd's nepesh soul carried our guilt into
She'owl,
which is equivalent to a black hole,
a place where nothing can be seen,
where nothing escapes, total darkness.
And he deposited there and protected by
the Ruwach of Yahowah.
He was unharmed for the experience and the
Ruwach
enveloping his soul,
which the Ruwach was positioned and
affirmed by Yahowah to do for Dowd's entire
existence, which, well,
has already been just shy of six thousand
years.
The Ruwach protected him there,
and the Ruwach removed him from She'owl at
the end of Matsah, so that he,
as the Bakowr of Yahowah,
Yahowah's firstborn,
could usher in the promises of Bikuwrym,
firstborn children.
So on Matsah,
it's the day that is the most important
because eternal life isn't that big a
deal.
In fact, for most people,
eternal life is counterproductive.
Did you know that?
If religious Jews celebrating Passover
without Matsah,
are christians with this pretense of a man
god being killed on uh on passover and
taking a nap on Matsah if they were
to fully benefit from that sacrifice on
passover it would be the worst possible
outcome they would become immortal but
still slathered with their guilt and
therefore prohibited from approaching god
and if you are
Estranged from God because of your guilt
and you are immortal is only one thing
that God can do with you.
He can't at that point dissipate your
soul.
You have to send you to She'owl.
And so you will go to She'owl,
the very place that you denied God going
with his nephesh soul.
Because you denied Matsah and you
celebrated Passover.
That's why God says don't celebrate
Passover unless you're in the covenant,
unless you have the sign of the covenant,
which is circumcision,
which the New Testament hates because Paul
decided that circumcision
His audience didn't like it.
His audience comprised of Greeks and
Romans didn't like circumcision.
So to be popular among the Greeks and
Romans,
Paul decided to speak out against the sign
of the covenant and he replaced
circumcision.
Of course,
couldn't replace it without contradicting
God, which is a really bad idea.
replaced it with baptism,
which was part of the rituals of the
Roman Catholic, now the Roman,
soon to be Roman Catholic, Senate.
The Sibylline Oracles were the source to
which he sold the idea of baptism.
So bottom line here is that if you
don't understand Matsah and you celebrate
Passover,
You're in a whole world of hurt.
You've made your soul immortal and still
slathered with your religious and
political guilt and therefore destined for
She'owl hell,
whether you believe the place exists or
not.
That's what you've done to yourself.
Now,
the solution is something that I was the
first to discover.
It's written all the way through the text
and it should have been obvious.
But no one heretofore understood it.
You see,
what Dowd volunteered to do is accept the
guilt of every covenant member.
And once his soul was burdened with it,
he took it into She'owl.
He went into hell for a heavenly cause.
And once deposited in She'owl,
guess what happens?
Because nothing escapes She'owl,
the guilt that we would otherwise have
incurred
is gone and it's not just gone it's
destroyed it's invisible it's not even
retrievable never to be seen again and if
all of our guilt is taken from us
how do we look that would be innocent
wouldn't it and so there's no judgment uh
you don't even need to be saved
Because their guilt is gone.
It's a stroke of genius by Yahowah to
have conceived this.
That he opens the doorway to life and
to his home by his son fulfilling Pesach.
And then he has his beloved son with
his nephesh soul carry our guilt into
shield to deposit it there and never to
be seen again.
All we have to do is stop being
religious and capitalize on what Dowd has
done and what Yahowah enabled through him.
And there we are,
we are immortal and we are not guilty.
And therefore we can be ourselves
completely open and exposed in front of
Yahowah.
Brilliant.
That means you can do what you need
to do.
You can be engaged in this process of
sharing what you know about God and you're
not worried about every little slip up
because it's irrelevant.
God can't even see them.
They're all gone.
They're just perfect and from God's point
of view,
perfect only in the sense of all of
your guilt is completely gone.
So that is the purpose of Pesach and
Matsah and what Matsah represents in the
order of things and how Dowd enabled it
in thirty-three CE.
And yet, nobody.
Prior to me recognizing it,
understanding the motivation for it,
explaining the process for it,
and then proving it,
and the thirty-five books that I have
written and through these programs,
no one knew that it was Dowd,
the very son of God, his Messiah,
our savior, the former and returning king,
God's chosen one,
the one God says through whom he enabled
and cut the covenant.
is Dowd and that he through Daniel
foretold the exact day in thirty-three CE
four thousand years that he himself would
fulfill Chag Matsah and he did.
And it's all there.
And then you read Psalms like twenty two
and ninety nine.
You read Isaiah nine and fifty three.
Any place you turn to the first thirty
minutes more,
particularly the eighty nine.
They all say the same thing.
Dowd is the one.
He did these things.
Now,
that means that Jesus Christ is nothing
but a goddamn lie.
Yeah, rather than being your God,
rather than being your Lord,
rather than being your king,
rather than being your savior,
he's a satanic deception.
He's worse than just mildly
counterproductive.
He's the most egregious counterfeit ever
conceived because that lie
This bit of replacement foolology was
placed right on top of the truth.
And in so doing,
billions were led astray and millions of
Jews have been harassed.
Yeah,
the Jews were even harassed by Christians
for killing their mythical God.
I mean, how stupid can a religion be?
This is Matsah.
If you're looking to celebrate it,
first of all,
make certain that you are circumcised.
You can't celebrate Pesach,
and Pesach is the first day of Matsah.
Second of all,
make sure that you know who Dowd is,
who Yahowah is,
and what the purpose of this day actually
is.
And then you should know that it's the
day following Pesach,
which is the evening of the beginning,
actually,
of the fourteenth day of the month,
which is the sunset on the thirteenth from
our calendar.
And that timing would be for Pesach.
Matsah is simply the next day.
And so Matsah at sunset this year,
it'll be a Saturday evening at sunset.
We'll celebrate Matsah.
There is no designated meal,
although God does bring up his three
animals that are symbolic of the men who
make the sacrifices to make the Mowedym
beneficial for us.
He mentions, of course, the lamb.
which you will often call a ram,
the bull, and the goat.
But we always stay with a high propensity
to barbecue various cuts of lamb
throughout the process.
Like we'll do lamb chops on Passover so
that what we don't eat,
a rack of lamb we don't eat,
we can incinerate and eat.
show that we respect that part of the
process,
which of course is direct refudiation of
Christianity,
where they want the lamb to be in
a grave so it can have bodily resurrection
when Yahowah says incinerate it.
So we'll do that.
And then on Matsah,
there is no instruction that whatever you
don't, as a family,
finish eating on Matsah,
On Matsah,
you can have leftovers throughout the rest
of the week.
The only instruction is no yeast and
continue to eat un-yeasted bread.
Now in this regard,
Matsah is un-yeasted bread.
It's not unleavened bread.
While yeast is a leavening agent,
we're not talking about baking powder
here.
He's talking about yeast.
Yeast is a natural fungus.
And as a fungus, it permeates many things.
It's what causes the alcohol in beer and
wine.
It causes the bread to puff up.
Yeast is, Chamets is the Hebrew word.
It means to embitter.
And from God's point of view,
religious and political guilt
makes us bitter from Yahowah's perspective.
And so it's the yeast that is symbolic
of religion and politics that God wants
removed from our souls so that when it's
carried to She'owl,
we're not just constantly doubling down
and adding to the burden,
that we stop being religious and political
and allow God
on Matsah Dowd to carry our guilt away
and therefore we are innocent from God's
eyes.
That is the purpose of this day.
Now, with that in mind,
I'd like to share some thoughts about what
God had to say about Matsah because some
things will surprise you.
The first of those is that
Jews want to believe that they were freed
from Mitsraym, Egypt,
and the political and religious tyrants of
Egypt on Passover, but that's not true.
On Passover,
they had a lovely meal and they stayed
in Mitsraym in their homes by God's
instruction that night.
They did not leave the political and
religious harassment of Mitsraym,
which means crucibles of
of man's political and religious
oppression and trouble until Matsah.
So Matsah is the day that celebrates our
freedom, but freedom from what?
And the answer to that is freedom from
religion and politics.
You see the first,
requirement to participate in the covenant
is to walk away from babel from this
intermixing and confusing uh commingling
of truth and lies that is the very
essence of politics and religion and so
it's on Matsah that we are disassociated
from those things we walked away from
those things
And it's the middle of the three days
while Matsah, chag Matsah,
seven-day celebration,
the first three days.
And Yahowah constantly reminds us this.
When we're talking about Mitsraym,
he's speaking through Moshe and saying,
you know, let my people go.
They're going to celebrate a three-day
feast with me.
Pesach, Matsah, Bikuwrym,
first three days of chag Matsah.
And on Bikuwrym, we are,
as I have shared,
we become the firstborn children of the
covenant, following Dowd's example,
who was Yahowah's Bakowr, firstborn.
So let's read a little bit about what
God had to say.
He said, and this begins from called out,
it's from Qara,
it's been corrupted to Leviticus,
a twenty-three one.
And Yahowah spoke these words,
to Moshe in order to promise and say.
That's a pretty good start.
And that's something that again,
you will not find ever mentioned,
not in Christianity.
Christianity never once says,
and Yahowah spoke these words.
Never once, guess why?
Because Yahowah never spoke any of the
words that became the Christian New
Testament, not one of them.
There is no mention of Yahowah and no
statement, and Yahowah spoke these words,
ever.
But when you read the Towrah, Prophets,
and Psalms,
what you read very often is Yahowah said,
Yahowah spoke these words.
This is what Yahowah conveyed.
It is ubiquitous in the Towrah, Prophets,
and Psalms,
and it is non-existent in the New
Testament and Talmud because Yahowah didn't
inspire either.
So Yahowah,
which is transliterated based upon the
title Elowah, God,
as directed by his Towrah instructions and
teaching and his Hayah existence.
Those words all tell us exactly how to
pronounce God's name.
Spoke these words to Moshe,
which is a name that means to call
out in order to promise and say,
under the auspices of free will,
Convey the word.
Dabar,
choose to share this empowering message of
God on behalf of the children of Yisrael.
Oh, you say, well,
it's for those Israelis.
I'm not Israeli,
so it doesn't pertain to me.
Good.
See you later.
Goodbye.
You can't be covenant if you're estranged
from Israel.
So goodbye.
It doesn't apply to you.
I get it.
Go away.
Stop listening.
It has no value to you.
It doesn't pertain to you.
God doesn't pertain to you.
Heaven doesn't pertain to you.
The covenant doesn't pertain to you.
Make the most of this life because that's
all you're going to get.
And oh, by the way,
don't be religious because, well,
then you'll get eternal life,
but not in a very happy place.
So Yisrael means those who engage and
endure with God.
If you're not among them, no sweat.
This message does not apply for you.
Turn the page, go listen to somebody else.
There's lots of anti-Semites out there and
religious wackos that will tickle your
ears, I'm sure.
So speak to the children of Yisrael,
of God,
on behalf of the children of Yisrael and
say to them, the Mowedym,
The Mowedym, where do we hear that?
Where's the first time that Mowedym appears
in God's voice?
I know,
do you know what the first time Mowedym
appears in God's voice?
In fact, if you're listening to this,
do you even know what a Mowedym is?
Do you know what ed is in Hebrew
or an m ending in Hebrew or a
ma preface in Hebrew?
How about I just break it down and
I'll share with you the component parts,
then I'll tell you where you can find
it.
ma is an interrogatory it means to ponder
the implications of something ed is a
restoring witness to the eternal testimony
and m is plural and that there are
more than one of them so the Mowedym
the eternal witnesses to the restoring
testimony of the appointed meeting times
These are not only the scheduled meetings
and appointments to gather together and be
with God, whose name is Yahowah,
and to be on the path that God
has provided for us to go from the
world of men to his world, his realm,
to go from three dimensions to seven
dimensions,
to walk from the darkness into the light,
to bypass death on the way to eternal
living,
but they're also represent seven annual
events each year.
And there are three people who participate
in fulfilling them, principally two,
but there is a very noble assist from
a third.
The first three, the spring, Mowedym,
were all fulfilled by Dowd in thirty-three
CE, the very son of God, Pesach, Matsah,
and Bikuwrym.
The next two are also harvest following
Bikuwrym,
which is a harvest of firstborn children.
It's also a barley harvest, but Shabuw'ah,
it's a harvest of mature wheat and wheat's
plural.
There'll be Gowym and there will be
Yahuwdym,
two loaves of bread symbolizing them,
but it's mature standing grain.
And so the next harvest is Shabuw'ah.
Following Shabuw'ah is Taruwah.
And following Taruwah,
we have Kipurym and Sukah.
And it is one of the two more
highly known, should be known,
individuals who fulfills both Shabuw'ah and
Taruwah and will be there with Dowd when
he returns with Yahowah on Kipurym
And it is the three of them,
if you will, being the sons of Yahowah,
Dowd and Yada,
who will be there to guide the mortal
remnant as they enter the garden during
Sukah.
So the Mowedym are essential to us.
The first time that Mowedym is mentioned by
Yahowah happens to be in the first chapter
of the first book of the Towrah.
So he doesn't mess around when it comes
to Mowedym.
It's really essential.
And what he says is there will be
two fellows,
a greater and lesser luminary.
And he says that both luminaries are great
from his point of view.
One's a little younger than the other.
But a greater and lesser luminary who will
serve as signs as they volunteer to
fulfill the Mowedym.
They're restoring witnesses to the eternal
testimonies.
That's what we're talking about here.
And without these luminaries serving to
fulfill the Mowedym and directing your
attention to them as signs,
there's no way to approach God.
There's no way to know him,
no way to engage in a relationship with
him, no way to enter heaven.
Your body is stuck on earth for whatever
period of time it lives and your soul
will either dissipate to nothingness or
endure an eternity and shield,
depending on how religious or political
you may have been.
So the Mow'edym
these restoring witnesses to the eternal
testimony,
are to show the way to the benefits
of the relationship, Asher.
You are continually and genuinely invited
to attend.
Qara is the basis of Miqra'ey,
which is the other term title that Yahowah
uses to describe these seven annual
meetings.
He will call them Mow'ed,
which are the restoring witnesses to the
eternal testimony regarding the set
appointments and the Miqra'ey,
which are invitations to be called out and
meet with God.
Qara is the verbal root.
So you are continually and genuinely
invited to attend.
They continually and genuinely happen to
be from the call and the imperfect as
they shape the meaning of the verb.
To attend them as set apart.
Miqra'ey.
Remember I told you that Qara is
is the verbal root of Miqra' and Miqra'ey
is the plural of Miqra' you know god
is trying to underscore that point he said
Qara Miqra'ey and the only difference between
Qara and Miqra' the single version of the
term
is it is prefaced by a my and
my in hebrew is the other form of
interrogatory interrogatory means to ask
questions that cause you to contemplate
the meaning of something so it's ponder
the implications of being invited to be
called out and meet with god that's what
Miqra'ey means is there a Miqra'ey in
christianity no how about a Miqra'ey and
judaism no
Is there a Mowedym in Christianity or
Judaism?
Nope.
They don't use those terms, do they?
Because they don't celebrate them.
They don't benefit from them.
And if you're not celebrating them,
you're not benefiting from them, well,
your soul has a zero percent chance of
salvation.
None.
These are,
God here's bringing right back the same
term.
He wants you to know that the Miqra'ey,
these are Mowedym, ani.
All those idiots out there,
particularly the twistians that say, oh,
the feast, they're Jewish feasts.
Go to hell.
Not Jewish feasts.
What does God say here?
These are ani Mowedym.
These are my feasts.
restoring witnesses to the eternal
meetings,
which is why God began the first chapter
of the first book of the Towrah,
telling you about the greater and lesser
luminaries serving as volunteers to
fulfill and signs to direct your attention
to the Mowedym.
The Mowedym are Yahwehs.
If you don't want to answer the invitation
to Pesach, Matsah, Bikuwrym, Shabuw'ah, Taruwah,
Kipurym, and Sukah.
That's your call.
But understand, you are turning God down.
He invited you to meet with him and
you're saying, nah,
I'd rather be religious.
I want to hang here with my pretend
man-god, Jesus, or Bar Kokhba,
or hang around Maimonides, the Rambam.
Rabbi Akiba,
the nitwit that was so stupid that he
caused the diaspora and caused the land to
be renamed Palestine.
No, that's not kidding around here.
These are not Jewish holidays.
I know that the Jews, they'll claim,
oh yeah, they're the Jewish holiday.
No, they're not.
First of all,
the Jews don't celebrate Matsah.
and they celebrate Pesach all wrong.
They don't celebrate Shabuw'ah,
they have renamed Taruwah as the Babylonian
head of the year in Rosh Hashanah.
They've turned Yom Kipurym,
which is the day of reconciliations into a
day of afflictions and of abusing
themselves while abusing chickens too.
And Sukah is a day for them to
build huts,
little huts that they hang around in the
afternoon, midday doing nothing.
Not a day of huts.
Sukah is a day that a mortal remnant
of Yisrael will be invited to return to
the garden for a thousand years so they
can demonstrate that they're worth God
allowing them to leave this planet,
empowering them, enriching them,
enabling them.
So these are the Mowedym.
They...
have virtually none of them are
celebrated.
There's only two actually that are,
three that are acknowledged of the seven.
There's three of them that are
acknowledged by Jews.
They miss the single most important in
Matsah because it removes religion.
They ignore Bikuwrym entirely because,
well, it's been,
stolen by those Twistians.
They ignore Shabuw'ah because it was claimed
by Twistians as Pentecost and the birth of
their church in some of the most stupid
analysis you'd ever see, justifications.
You know,
they've corrupted Taruwah to the Babylonian
Rosh Hashanah.
They will at least acknowledge a Yom
Kippur, even though it's plural,
it's Kipurym.
But when they...
they do it they turn it into a
day of affliction as opposed to a day
to reconcile the relationship and a
homecoming and they've turned uh Sukah into
running around with some sour fruit and uh
the four species and building uh huts it's
stupid but these are the Mowedym
These are the modim of Yahowah.
They are Yahowah's,
my witnesses to the appointed meeting
times.
And this says for six days,
she shall act in the service to the
spiritual messenger.
There is a malak, a malak,
and Hebrew is a...
spiritual messenger it's not always a uh a
spiritual mission though a Malak can be
an individual and very often is an
individual and the ah ending doesn't make
the term necessarily feminine there are
many many many titles that Yahowah applies
to men that have the ah ending and
what he typically means by it if it's
a title and it has the ah ending
is that the understanding of
what is happening here in terms of being
an envoy,
a messenger from God is that in the
ending, it is more comprehensive.
It's just like,
If you're a man by the original design,
you're exceptionally reasonable,
but maybe not very emotional.
Your ability to express emotions may be
truncated.
If you're a woman,
you may have lots of compassion and be
quite emotional,
but may not be quite as rational.
It was the original design anyway.
But by taking a masculine term and putting
the ah ending at it,
it's like creating a person like Dowd.
And what you see in Dowd is he
was exceedingly cerebral,
while also very passionate and emotional.
So it's a way of taking a word
and making it more comprehensive.
So this is an exceedingly important
messenger conveying the message of God
that is spiritually enabled, the Malakah.
And then on the seventh day,
there will be a Shabbat observance,
a Shabbatown.
Shabbatown is important for you to know
here.
And I know I'm going way past what
we normally consider.
All right,
just give me the basics of what Matsah
represents.
But I want to use Matsah as a
special case where we...
Take something that is essential to your
knowledge and show how much can be
understood about it.
And here God is saying it's a Shabbatown.
The reason Shabbatown is important for you
is that there are many words that God
uses that have the own ending.
Zikarown is an example.
Elyown is another example.
When God uses Shabbatown,
He is telling us something that's
important.
There's another place where he uses Adam
and he has the own suffix placed at
the end of Adam.
So in Shabbatown is the first place you're
going to encounter such a thing.
And what it tells you is that the
own ending means that it's everything that
pertains to a Shabbat.
So a Shabbatown is to consider everything
associated with the promise and purpose of
the seventh day, Shabbatown.
Elyown, which El meaning Almighty,
the Y being the very hand and influence,
and On mean all things pertaining to,
would be all things pertaining to the hand
and influence of God.
Dowd is called Elyown.
Zikrown, Zakar would be a memorable man,
and Zikrown would be all things
pertaining to the most memorable of men.
When God says of Dowd,
the first time we're introduced to him,
just the moment he introduces Dowd by
name, he said that Dowd,
the single most important trait for us to
understand about Dowd is that he is all
things pertaining to Adam, Adam,
all things pertaining to Adam.
Dowd was Adam, Adam is Dowd, same soul.
very important lesson i hope that it
resonates with you uh because it's
exceedingly important for you to to
understand it so that you can understand
god's message so it's a shabbat observance
a shabbaton uh to consider everything
associated with the promise and and
purpose of the seventh day of a set
apart nature Qodesh
so he's talking about Matsah and he's uh
this celebration of chag Matsah and it's
set apart it's Qodesh which means it's not
religious it's not political it is set
apart under god he's saying that it's not
only a Mowedym a restoring witness to the
eternal testimony but that it's his he's
saying that it twice he said that it's
a a Mowedym which is a restoring witness
to the eternal testimony
He says that it's a Shabbat and a
Shabbatown,
all things pertaining to the message of
the seventh day and of God's promise.
And then he says it's a Miqra'ey.
It is an invitation to be called out
and made.
He has unloaded the full McGillicuddy of
affirmations of a day.
Just throw in McGillicuddy,
it's not actually a Hebrew term.
And then he says that, guess who?
The Malakah, this heavenly implement,
this envoy who is spiritually empowered,
will be occupied with the business,
the mission, and the purpose of this day,
doing everything such that you do not have
to do anything.
Yeah, that's the thing.
I'm asked all the time,
what do I need to do so that
I can do Passover and Matsah correctly?
And I said to you,
you need to understand that Yahowah working
through Dowd and then conveying the
message through the Malakah and the
Zikarown have done everything that needed
to be done correctly and have conveyed it
accurately.
Benefit from it.
Listen, think, understand.
and then respond.
You know,
we have this marvelous example in
Hezekiah.
They lost the Towrah for years.
They became very religious.
A copy of the Towrah comes up.
It's really rough times,
and the province of Yahuwdah,
the kingdom of Yahuwdah,
the kingdom of
of Israel,
the northern kingdom is already gone,
the Assyrians have done them in.
And now you've got the Assyrians coming
down and they're threatening Jerusalem as
the capital of Yahuwdah
And they find a copy of the Towrah
and Hezekiah King reads it and says,
holy crap.
I'm sure that's a technical term too,
but...
It says that if we're religious,
we're anti-God,
that God does not want us to be
religious,
and we got religious crap everywhere.
And he realizes that it's coming up as
time to celebrate Pesach Matsah Bikuwrym,
the Spring Mowedym.
And he tells God, God, listen,
I understand this is what we should be
doing.
We got to get rid of all the
religiosity because there's no purpose of
having a day that removes our religious
guilt if we're still surrounded by
religious guilt.
So we've got to get rid of the
religious stuff.
And then once we do,
I've got to get enough people,
particularly the priests,
up to speed so they know how to
convey the intent of this so that people
can capitalize on it.
I can't do that in the time remaining.
Can I have a two-week extension?
You betcha.
No problem.
It was so much fun.
They said, hey, God,
can we do it again?
How about if we just do it again?
Okay, do it again.
God's not hung up on you being precise
with your timing.
He's not hung up on you being precise
with your menu.
He is hung up that you know what
occurred and how to capitalize upon it.
And at that point,
they did not know that Dowd was going
to fulfill it.
We do now.
If you want to capitalize on it,
you need to appreciate that.
So it is a Shabbat observance to approach
Yahowah, to live and abide throughout time.
You want to know what the Miqra'ey of
Matsah represents?
Chag Matsah, chag means it's a party,
a celebration.
It is a Shabbatown, a Shabbat,
all things pertaining to the promise of
seven,
a Shabbatown to approach Yahowah and to live
and abide throughout time.
It's an invitation to meet with God.
It is a restoring witness to the eternal
testimony.
And if you're a Christian,
that's all tossed away because Paul hated
God.
He hated the Towrah.
He hated all of this.
And because of his repulsive,
demon-controlled life,
he has fooled billions of people into
turning their nose at what God
established, making it Jewish holidays,
to be despised,
to be demeaned among Christians.
with Jews being demonized by them.
And with God's own people,
they've been worse.
Worse,
there isn't a single one of the Mowedym
that they celebrate in a way that will
do them any good.
And most of them, they completely ignore.
So they either twist them to the point
that they have no purpose or they ignore
them.
And therefore,
there is no way to approach Yahowah.
That's not a problem for Judaism because
they've erased his name and they don't
like him anyway.
He doesn't like them, so no problem.
But if you want to live and abide
throughout time, it is the only way.
If you do not capitalize on Chag Matsah,
Pesach, Matsah, and Bikuwrym,
with Pesach opening the doorway to life,
Matsah removing your guilt,
Bikuwrym being your adoption papers into
the covenant where you're enriched and
empowered,
then you are going to have your soul
dissipated the moment you die.
No reward, no punishment,
but no eternal life.
The only way to it, well,
according to God,
my guess he should know is through Chag
Matsah, Pesach Matsah and Bikuwrym.
That's Qara, called out, Leviticus,
twenty-three-three.
Then he says,
these godly eternal witnesses to the
appointed meetings.
Mow'ed.
Of Yahowah.
Not of the Lord, not of Hashem,
not of those Jews.
not of Israel, of Yahowah.
These godly, 'eleh
eternal witnesses to the appointed
meetings,
these restoring witnesses to the
everlasting testimony of Yahowah are set
apart, which means they are not religious,
they are not political, they're uncommon,
separating.
Invitations to be called out and meet,
Miqra'ey.
It's welcoming summons to read and recite,
to call out,
to pronounce the name and to proclaim the
purpose of the relationship.
Miqra'ey, from my,
to ponder the implications of Qara,
being invited, being summoned, meeting,
greeting, being welcomed,
being called out, reading and reciting.
Which to receive the benefits of the
relationship, asher.
You are invited to attend,
to be called out and to be welcomed.
Qara, I mean,
God has done everything he can to tell
you the basis of the words he's using.
And yet the religious have screwed all of
this up.
You're invited to attend.
You've been summoned to be called out and
to be welcomed,
drawing near through them at the
ba
Mow'ed Hem at the appointed time of
the restoring witnesses to the eternal
testimony.
Qara called out,
never should have been called Leviticus.
23:4
I mean,
if that doesn't get your attention,
then you're just in the wrong place.
I mean,
I'm doing this program to help people
understand the basics.
of coming to know Yahowah and engaging in
relationship with him.
And Matsah is the basic of basics.
And yet,
if you think they're Jewish holidays,
you don't think it matters.
You think your Jesus Christ solved all of
that.
I mean, please go away.
Now I'd shut your effing mouth because if
you open it and you protest otherwise,
you're going to punch your ticket to hell.
These are not Jewish holidays.
They haven't been nailed to a cross.
They are God's instructions and he does
not change.
He says they are eternal for all time.
Now,
I'm not trying to sell you on them.
If you're uncomfortable with it, again,
go away.
I am not inviting you to them.
I'm telling you they're God's invitations.
You either respond or you don't.
And you don't get to say yes, but.
You don't get to negotiate and say,
I still wanna be a Christian.
I wanna find a Christian interpretation of
this.
Well,
what if I rename Jesus as Yeshua or
Yeshu or whatever they wanna achoo him.
No, you don't get to change them.
They are gods,
he and his beloved son and soon,
Their chosen herald paid dearly to deliver
these invitations.
You don't wanna capitalize on it,
that's fine.
We're not looking for quantity,
but instead for quality.
So in the first month, chodesh
time of renewal.
On the fourteenth day,
for the purpose of understanding, Byn.
Byn is a word that says if you
want to comprehend something,
you need to make the connections between
things that enable that.
If I give you a formula and you
know one aspect of the formula,
but you don't make the connection between
each ingredient and element of that
formula,
you are never going to understand the
conclusion.
And if I even give you the answer,
but I don't tell you the formula that
got us there,
it won't be of any benefit to you.
You won't comprehend it.
That's the whole idea of these basics.
I could give you the answer.
I could say Matsah is the
Celebration of Pesach, Matsah,
and Bikuwrym.
And it is on the fifteenth day,
which begins at the fourteenth day at
sunset of the first month, which is Abib.
And it is called un-yeasted bread,
which is to remove yeast from our souls.
And it is the means that God devised
to purge our souls of guilt.
Not one person in a billion could
capitalize upon it.
Because to be in,
you have to have a foundation of
knowledge.
And then you have to have the wherewithal
to have somebody explain to you the
connection between these various things,
like the words that I have shared with
you.
And then when that happens,
you're in a position to go from knowing,
which is very rare today,
very few people know, to understanding,
which is rarer still by making these
connections.
So for the purpose of understanding,
at twilight, that would be ha-eram,
at sunset.
Sunset is when the day begins,
when Passover begins.
It begins at sunset.
This year,
Pesach will begin on Friday evening at
sunset.
I know that rabbinic Jews are going to
celebrate it on Thursday evening at
sunset.
There's really no justification for that
because the...
First,
renewing light on the Moon is less than
a half a percent,
half of one percent of the Moon's surface
on fourteen days prior to that,
which would be the first of Abib,
if it could be seen.
And second of all, it occurs after sunset.
And anytime something occurs after sunset,
it's the next day.
So they're wrong this time.
It is Friday evening,
not Thursday evening will be Passover.
And so he's saying that the fourteenth day
of the month at twilight is Pesach.
It's Passover.
According to that other,
who's that guy again?
He's so authoritative.
I mean,
he's acting like he's like the creator of
the universe or belongs to him or
something.
Yahowah, that was the guy's name.
According to Yahowah.
may want to listen to him he does
just happen to be god and during the
fifteenth day of this same month fifteenth
day it would be the fifteenth day of
abib i shared in our last program how
to calculate a b but if you forgot
it is essentially the renewing light on
the moon surface that would be observable
uh prior to sunset um on the
the renewing light of the moon that would
be nearest the vernal equinox,
which is right around the twenty to twenty
second of March on our current calendars.
And we know this because that's the time
when the initial barley harvest,
the winter barley would be harvestable.
It could be sickled.
is right around this time.
It's also the time that flax is in
bloom.
And so God gave us the time of
year based upon these things.
So Abib is the first month of the
Hebrew year.
It's when the winter barley crop is green,
still growing, but ready to be sickled.
And it turns out that it's the renewing
light on the moon's surface closest to the
winter, excuse me,
the spring equinox in the
It can be two weeks prior to that
or two weeks after that.
It can never be more than two weeks
from that time because the full lunar
cycle is twenty nine and a half days.
so it's going to be within two weeks
of that time always without fail this
particular case the the new moon and the
the spring equinox they were almost
coterminous so there's no question as to
which month we're talking about and it's
all to approach Yahowah seven days you
should eat bread without yeast
No, seven days.
No,
we've already been told that the first day
of this is Passover, the fourteenth day.
And so beginning on Passover,
you eat un-yeasted bread.
Pretty simple instruction, right?
Eat un-yeasted bread for seven days.
And the chag Matsah is a seven-day
celebration.
So eat un-yeasted bread for seven days,
Matsah.
I happen to have an affinity for Matsah.
Check my house, my office, my kitchen,
which you're going to see.
There's boxes.
I have a special brand that I happen
to like, my favorite.
And they're everywhere.
And my wife, dear Leah,
she is a Matsah maker.
She makes Matsah that is like ten times
better than the store brand.
But, you know,
She's not making it every night of every
year.
So I have my own as well.
And we,
if you were to go into our kitchen,
probably at any time, um,
ninety percent of the time when you're in
our kitchen,
what you're going to see is that we
have a little bowl,
little glass bowl of very special olive
oil that is mixed with a our favorite
mix of bitter herbs and
We eat it for a snack,
eat it with dinner,
but we have it twelve months of the
year.
There is no rule here that says you
can't enjoy this all year round.
It just says for the seven days of
Chag Matsah, beginning on Pesach,
the fourteenth day of the first month of
the Hebrew year, you are to do this,
and we do this during that time,
but we...
We kind of have the Hezekiah treatment.
We say, yeah, that was pretty good.
Like we eat lamb all year round too.
So seven days you shall eat bread without
yeast, which as I say,
we have a tendency to expand upon.
The first foremost and primary day is a
set apart and cleansing invitation to be
called out and meet.
It is a Miqra', Miqra' , Miqra'.
Miqra',
invitation to be called out and meet.
What happens?
Somebody hands you an invitation.
What do you do?
Do you throw it away?
You say, oh God,
that invitation that came from the
dastardly Jews and we hate the Jews
because they killed our God.
The invitation is now is coming from
Yahowah, a name you may not recognize,
but he just happens to be God.
He is offering an invitation to call you
out of the world of men,
call you out away from the world of
religion and politics and to meet with
him.
What do you think would be the appropriate
response to that?
I know, tough question, isn't it?
Show up.
Respond.
Crying out loud.
God actually answers the question that I
asked just in case people weren't very
bright.
He says,
you may want to answer the invitation,
but that's up to you.
You can do what you want to do,
but don't pretend that it doesn't apply to
you because your Jesus nailed the Towrah to
the cross because there was no Jesus and
no such thing has happened.
And it's for you to approach, God says,
qarab
You shall not consistently perform any of
the duties of the spiritual messenger,
the Malakah.
Listen,
I was initially drawn to the idea when
it comes to this Malakah that
maybe because it was malak which is a
masculine uh spiritual messenger and that
means that person could be an ordinary
messenger a messenger that is representing
heaven uh a spiritual messenger or a
person who has the very spirit of Yahowah
inside of them
would qualify as a spiritual messenger.
And I was first when I read saw
this word,
and it was always rendered as work and
in most translations, but you know,
the word the verb,
you should not work would be lo asha.
ʿAsah means to do.
So lo asha would mean you should not
work.
And if you're looking for a good Hebrew
word for work, it would be abodah,
which was the one that I shared here
earlier.
The duties, that would be the effort,
the labor, the expenditure of energy.
abodah is the Hebrew word for work.
Malak and with the feminine ending Malakah
is not a Hebrew word for work.
It's the Hebrew word for messenger.
And there is no arguing that point.
That is a fact.
What the only issue is,
is the ending because the Ruwach of Yahowah
is feminine and that Ruwach of Yahowah was
endowed.
The Ruwach of Yahowah is in the Choter.
Is it because of that or is it
because of what we have seen in so
many Hebrew words that are titles that are
ascribed to God's most responsible men?
That the ah ending makes that title more
comprehensive,
that this is a very full expression of
who that spiritual messenger would be.
And in this case,
as it relates to this spiritual message
that is being delivered,
both of the two men that God deliberately
says, my spirit is in them.
My spirit is guiding them and protecting
them and inspiring them.
that they are the two individuals that are
the most engaged in doing the work of
fulfilling these Miqra'ey, these Mowedym.
Because Dowd fulfilled the first three,
Pesach, Matsah, and Bikuwrym.
I fulfilled Shabuw'ah and Taruwah.
And, you know,
Shabuw'ah is fine in cultivating the
harvest.
Taruwah begins with the gleaning.
Yeah, great.
But the next part...
of Taruwah is the sacrifice of the Adamah
Parah, where I'm butchered,
just like Dowd was on Pesach.
And so we're all in,
we are major contributors to this story.
And depending on which one you are
observing, Pesach, Matsah, Bikuwrym,
the spiritual messenger is Dowd.
If you're observing Shabuw'ah and Taruwah,
It's me.
If it's me telling you it's me,
if that bothers you, then fine,
I don't really care.
Listen,
I made a commitment with Yahowah that I
would go where his words lead.
He speaks of what I'm doing on your
behalf upwards of a thousand times.
I'm not going to ignore it.
I'm not gonna run from that
responsibility.
God has a very difficult time finding
anyone who will have the
stick-to-itiveness
to listen to him over a long period
of time,
thoughtfully contemplate what he has said,
respond appropriately,
and then see it through.
Do what needs to be done until the
job is finished.
As a matter of fact,
if you go all the way through human
history,
you're going to find a grand total of
two people that meet that criterion.
And one of those two gave up
and had to be inspired by the other
one to finish the job.
So if you want to give me flack
over that, great.
Bring it on.
See if I care.
I can tell you what I know.
I can tell you how to meet God.
I can bring you right to his presence.
And if you pass on all of this,
but you're still qualified to be among
that mortal remnant seven years from now,
I can purge you of your guilt so
that you can move on into the millennial
celebration of Sukah and reenter the
garden and prove yourself then.
It's your call.
I'm not here to sell you on anything.
You can listen, you can capitalize,
or you can go away.
Again, we are not recruiting.
I'm explaining what you do.
The information is up to you,
but I would be careful because if you
want to challenge what I'm telling you and
you want to speak against it,
there's a consequence for that.
You should not consistently perform.
You should not do any of the duties
of the spiritual messenger.
You can look at that spiritual messenger
as Dowd, who has already fulfilled Pesach,
Matsah, and Bikuwrym,
or you can look at that messenger as
the one who's speaking to you now and
explaining to you what these days
represent and how to capitalize on them.
But when God goes and does things,
he picks a person.
He doesn't pick a team.
He can have a team of people supporting
that person, which he does in this case,
and even did for Moshe.
And he did often for Dowd.
But he's all in with one person,
one at a time.
So you can look at this either way
you'd like.
He goes on to say,
now approach and come near to be present
with, approach, draw close, karab,
the manifestation of God's fiery light,
Ishah, to be near Yahowah.
for seven days.
I'm gonna end this program by explaining
this and then we're going to move on
and I'm going to make this particular
basic presentation of Matsah at least two,
I might even go to three because it
is the seminal day.
If you understand everything that I'm
sharing with you on Matsah,
then you're in a position to go to
Yada Yahowah where every one of the
thirty-five books is available free and
read them and learn
and respond,
and then prove yourself worthy.
That's your opportunity.
And if you listen to everything I'm gonna
share with you,
and God's going to tell you about Matsah,
then you are on a wonderful start in
that direction.
And if you are already covenant,
then this is reinforcing things that are
important for you to know and for you
to share.
And so we may turn this presentation of
Matsah into three programs because God has
a lot to say on it.
So this is now approach, come near,
to be present with.
Qarab, that's all Qarab means.
It doesn't mean offer a gift.
And Ishah doesn't mean burn offering.
I know that's the way they're rendered in
almost every translation,
but their translations are rubbish.
Qarab means to draw near.
It means to approach, to be present,
not to offer a present.
It was written in the Hifl Perfect.
And that means that the person who is
speaking is encouraging the person who is
listening to act in a manner that is
consistent with the person who is
speaking.
The person who is speaking,
he is that same God fellow,
that Yahowah fellow.
He wants us to be more like him.
That's what the Hifl stem would be.
Perfect means this is not something that
you need to do all the time.
This is a specific request for a finite
period of time.
In this case, it was for seven days.
What is it that we're supposed to
approach?
It says the Ishah.
And Ishah in Hebrew can mean woman.
So my guess is not saying approach the
woman.
And it can mean fire from a written
again with a feminine ending.
But what is, again,
the lesson of the feminine ending?
It's something that I'm positive I'm the
first to deduce and sharing with you,
but it's because I've been doing this for
a quarter of a century.
And Yahowah has enabled my understanding
with the seven spirits of Yahowah as
articulated in Yashayah Isaiah,
if you'd like to check that out.
Ishah means all things pertaining to a more
comprehensive appreciation of a fuller
application of the concept of fire.
Ishah is fire.
Ishah would mean a more pronounced
understanding of the fire,
more complete appreciation of the fire and
the fiery light.
to be near Yahowah for seven days.
Why would God say that?
Do you know why God would say,
I want you to approach and come near
during Matsah,
the fiery light for seven days?
Why would he say that?
What is the metaphor fire?
He's not asking you to walk into the
fire.
He's asking you to approach the fire.
Ever done a campfire where you've gone out
with other people to roast, I don't know,
hot dogs, marshmallows?
I guess you can't have hot dogs and
marshmallows if you're Jewish because the
rabbi said, oh, yeah, mix, you know,
dairy and meat.
But that doesn't have any such rules.
You can have a weenie roast and a
marshmallow roast and put them on the same
stick if you want to.
I don't know.
That would be a particularly...
All right, fun, but I love campfires.
I love the smell of them.
I love the warmth of them.
And here I know that come Friday evening,
I've got my fire pit out there.
I got my logs.
We're gonna have, we're gonna have fire.
But for seven days,
we're gonna have fire to celebrate what he
is asking here.
Why did God say to approach me,
to be near me for these seven days
that you should approach the manifestation
of the fiery light?
Why?
I've explained this before.
It's profoundly important.
What does fire do?
Fire takes decaying, dead, organic matter,
and it transforms it into energy and
light.
What is God offering us through Pesach,
Matsah and Bikuwrym?
He's offering to take these physical
bodies and remove them as a liability.
Just as the Passover lamb gave his
physical body away, it didn't do any good.
It's a liability.
And his then nephesh soul surrounded by
the spirit of Yahowah, the Ruwach of Yahowah,
was surrounded by a manifestation of light
and energy.
And when our bodies are gone and our
souls are enveloped in light and energy,
which is the symbol of all of this,
by transferring and transforming us from
physical beings tracked in three
dimensions and unable to get off this
planet and to live any length of time
or to have any sense of real empowerment,
to being souls surrounded by light and
energy as opposed to limiting physical
bodies.
Transforming us by this evolution from
decaying physical matter to empowering,
enlightening, elevating,
purifying light and energy.
Fires purify.
You put water over a fire,
it will remove the pathogens.
You put dross over a fire and you
will end up with the separation of the
value and the value of the thing that
you're trying to separate in and that
which you're going to throw away.
The heat of the fire and the smoke
of the fire go up, they elevate.
You put a fire underneath a
A balloon that you can float above the
land and it will take you up and
you'll float in the sky because the warm
air is lighter than the cooler air and
you're elevated.
It will elevate you.
If it's a dark night,
that fire burns bright.
It will enlighten you.
And so there's so many marvelous metaphors
associated with fire,
but the most important is the
transformation from being restricted by a
three D body and being enveloped in
spiritual energy and fire and light so
that your soul can be enriched and
empowered.
That's why E equals MC squared means.
That's the only way that we become
immortal.
It's the only way we can get from
being trapped in three dimensions to go
into four, which is time, five, six,
into seven, and enter the spiritual realm,
is to approach this manifestation of God's
fiery light,
which is the very way that he transforms
us.
It's the gift of Pesach, Matsah,
and Bikuwrym.
It's where we end up at the end
of Pesach, Matsah, and Bikuwrym,
so we can draw near Yahowah.
And he is telling us to do this
for seven days.
What a marvelous picture.
Now I want to tell you,
that's not worth an hour of your time.
I don't know what you need,
what you want to hear.
This comes directly from God.
And he has just told you that Matsah
represents the seven most important days
of your life every year.
And it's the only way to extend your
life and to approach Yahowah.
I thank you for listening and look forward
to presenting the basics of Matsah part
two as we continue our study.
Good day.
Hey there, thanks for tuning in.
That was Fetch.
Gotta run now.
Catch y'all on our next podcast.